Hello, I am Shashwat Garg, 200050130. Below are my observations for the game I created using fltk graphics.

In this game you have to reach the other side of the window using controls, ‘w’ ‘a’ ‘s’ and ‘d’ for upward, leftward, downward and rightward movement respectively.

On the screen, there are a lot of other green widgets which you need to stay away from. Touching any green element is a foul and it would end the game. You would need to restart the game.

The objective is to reach the bottom right corner, preventing the green buttons in the way, after which a “You Win!” message is shown.

To implement this game I have made two classes, one class manages the game and checks for collisions and holds the information of the barrier buttons.
The other class manages the playing button and its movements.

The second class inherits from the Fl_Widget class and the draw and handle functions have been overloaded.



The game is mainly to be played from the keyboard and uses the FL_KEYBOARD events.

I wanted to include the factor of time and other aspects like creating widgets during runtime, but fltk seems incapable of that.

The Fl::run function is a black box and there is not a lot I could do. I got segmentation faults about 100 times in the various approaches I tried to make the game more fun.

It seems like keyboard control can be only for one widget at a time. Thus I could not create a full graphical program, with multiple moving parts.
Accessing different objects is possible via a mouse, but there is a single click possible via a mouse and it's far too less compared to the number of keys on the keyboard.

For the aspect of time as well, there existed the function timeout, which didn't allow passing arguments.

Overall, I feel that this lab was somewhat limiting for me in terms of bringing out what I had in mind.
I was hoping for something like initcanvas from CS101, but this seemed like a very different graphics program manager.

Still, I have made a simple game which works fine and I hope I can implement other ideas in the future.
