Hello, I am Shashwat Garg, 200050130. Below are my observations while analyzing and improving prolog programs, using the Logic paradigm. This is the CS154 Lab 13.
In this lab we have to make programs having errors and also make correct programs and find the part causing the error, for better understanding of the logic paradigm


1. connected_error.pl & connected.pl-

Generating Infinite Recursion Error-
Using the same name for connected and path. This gave infinite recursion and stack overflow.
This was because whenever we called connected(A, B), the connected(A,C) and connected(C, B) are called.
As a result, there is no termination condition due to the connected(A, A) being undefined in the program.
This sends the program into infinite recursion and causes this error.

Corrections-
Using different names. We define another function called path which has both a termination condition and defines a proper form of recursion.
Here we get no infinite recursion since the base case is correctly defined.

Thus, the error causing infinite recursion was using the same variable name and not defining the base case correctly.





2. sibling_error.pl & sibling.pl-

Generating Infinite Recursion Error-
We are using a line in code which says, sibling(X, Y) :- sibling(Y,X).
This causes errors because the program keeps on calling sibling one after another and leads to infinite recursion calls and thus stack overflow.

Corrections-
Remove that line. Define the relationship only in terms of parent(A, B). This does not reduce any logical information and facts in our program universe.
Besides, this works correctly, which indicates that the initial problematic line of code was redundant and causing errors.

Thus, the error causing infinite recursion was not putting a proper base condition on an infinite recursive call.
Also, we learnt that unnecessary lines of code can cause unwanted errors. We should declare only the required logical facts and relationships and not over define redundant facts.





3. Kth_element_error.pl & kth_element.pl

The initial program is working correctly. We will now add some error line to make it infinitely recursive.

Generating Infinite Recursion Error-
This is due to a minor typo. We are not reducing the size of the list in the recursive call.
Thus it never reaches the base case and keeps on calling itself, increasing the index number each time.

Corrections-
This is a simple bug. Just using trace. debugger, I was able to identify the problem and correct it completely.
So this was our third learning, properly define the recursive call, otherwise you will never terminate your code






4. reverse_error.pl & reverse.pl-

Logical Error in the code-
The error is caused due to an incorrect algorithm. In the recursive step, we are calling the last function, which is fine….but the reverse recursive call is incorrect.
Actually, U is not the reverse of L. U is actually the reverse of the initial list, excluding the last element. This is not captured in this program

Correction-
This algorithm was not correct and not correctable since the basis of recursion was incorrect. The only method to correct a logical error is to define a new correct algorithm.
The way I have done it is to implement my own recursive pop function.
At each step, it takes the topmost element from the left list and attaches it to the right list.
This way, with each recursive call, the left list keeps getting smaller and the right list keeps on increasing.
At the end we end up with a reversed list.
There is a third variable in my program, which functions as the answer variable, since the base case is defined when this third variable and the second list are equal.

This way, this program runs without any exception or error.






5. Demonstrating cut operator, cut.pl

This is an extension of the connected program. It can be seen by the program execution that the cut operator stops the program from returning more than one output.
This is because it prevents backtracking.
Basically, we cannot use ; to generate more solutions.
This is helpful to stop infinite recursion in some programs.

For eg.- We can use ! after the connection recursive call and this way only the nearest connected city will be returned. This has been demonstrated in the program cut.pl.

Here we have an undirected graph showing connections between various cities. If you remove the ! and execute the function, it keep on running without stopping.
This is again due to A calling B and B calling A.
To counter this, we use ! which only evaluates it once, no backtracking.
This way, we get all the direct connections ( we only need direct connections in this program) and no extra repetition is also present.


